#summary API reference for emo.physics.Body
#labels Phase-Implementation

= emo.physics.Body =

Body represents a rigid body. These are created via emo.physics.[World]#createBody.

Basically the Body class implements part of the b2Body API of Box2D.  The following links may help you to understand the Box2d world.

  * http://www.box2d.org/manual.html
  * http://www.box2d.org/documentation.html
  * http://code.google.com/p/box2d/source/browse/trunk/Box2D/Box2D/Dynamics/b2Body.h

== constructor ==

There's no constructor for Body. Use emo.physics.World#createBody to create a rigid body.

The functions below are almost all proxy functions of b2Body. Refer to the following link for API details.
   * http://code.google.com/p/box2d/source/browse/trunk/Box2D/Box2D/Dynamics/b2Body.h

== createFixture ==

== destroyFixture ==

== setTransform ==

== getPosition ==

== getAngle ==

== getWorldCenter ==

== getLocalCenter ==

== setLinearVelocity(v) ==

== getLinearVelocity ==

== setAngularVelocity(omega) ==

== getAngularVelocity ==

== applyForce(force, point) ==

== applyTorque ==

== applyLinearImpulse ==

== applyAngularImpulse ==

== getMass ==

== getInertia ==

== getWorldPoint(localPoint) ==

== getWorldVector(localVector) ==

== getLocalPoint(worldPoint) ==

== getLocalVector(worldVector) ==

== getLinearVelocityFromWorldPoint ==

== getLinearVelocityFromLocalPoint ==

== getLinearDamping ==

== setLinearDamping(linearDamping) ==

== getAngularDamping ==

== setAngularDamping(angularDamping) ==

== setType(bodyType) ==

== getType ==

== setBullet(flag) ==

== isBullet ==

== setSleepingAllowed(flag) ==

== isSleepingAllowed ==

== setAwake ==

== isAwake ==

== setActive ==

== isActive ==

== setFixedRotation(flag) ==

== isFixedRotation ==