#summary Install project template for Android
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Install project template for Android =

To create new project for Android, use project template for Eclipse.

Download the latest source distribution from http://code.google.com/p/emo-framework/downloads/list . The project template for Eclipse is in the Android-Template directory.

  * Start your Eclipse
  * Select 'File' -> 'Import' menu
  * Select 'General' -> 'Existing Projects into Workspace'
  * Choose 'Select root directory' and browse for the parent directory of the Android-Template directory.
  * Check the 'copy projects into workspace' if you want to copy them to your workspace. (Normally you may need to check it.)
  * Check the 'Android-Template' directory and press 'Finish' button

Edit package name in the AndroidManifest.xml. Otherwise "com.emo_framework.examples" is used for your app. (you won't be happy  with it...)
{{{
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
        package="com.emo_framework.examples"
        android:versionCode="1"
        android:versionName="1.0">
}}}

The main script file is assets/main.nut. Edit it to write your own game.

{{{
function emo::onLoad() {
  // print log to the logcat
  print("It works!");
}
}}}

That's all!

= Build examples for Android =

The example for Eclipse is in the Android-Examples directory.

  * Start your Eclipse
  * Select 'File' -> 'Import' menu
  * Select 'General' -> 'Existing Projects into Workspace'
  * Choose 'Select root directory' and browse for the parent directory of the Android-Examples directory.
  * Check the 'copy projects into workspace' if you want to copy them to your workspace. (Normally you may need to check it.)
  * Check the 'Android-Examples' directory and press 'Finish' button