#summary API reference for emo.KeyEvent
#labels Phase-Implementation

= KeyEvent =

*Andriod only:* emo-framework can handle key and button events. onKeyEvent is fired by the framework when user presses the key. Note that iOS users cannot handle the key event because iOS has 'Home' button that is only used to finish the application and it is not allowed to customize that behavior.

{{{
function onKeyEvent(kevent) {
  print("key event!");
}
}}}

== getAction ==

emo-framework is just the proxy that passes the key event fired by Android platform. If you handled the event, return true. If you want to allow the event to be handled by the next receiver, return false.  The action parameter has one of the following value: KEY_EVENT_ACTION_DOWN, KEY_EVENT_ACTION_UP or KEY_EVENT_ACTION_MULTIPLE.

{{{
function onKeyEvent(kevent) {
  if (kevent.getAction() == KEY_EVENT_ACTION_DOWN) {
    print("key event down!");
  }
  return false;
}
}}}

== getKeyCode ==

Returns the key code of the key event. The key code has the same name compared to the Android's key event. See [http://developer.android.com/reference/android/view/KeyEvent.html Android KeyEvent] document for details.

{{{
function onKeyEvent(kevent) {
  if (kevent.getAction() == KEY_EVENT_ACTION_DOWN) {
    if (kevent.getKeyCode() == KEYCODE_HOME) {
      print("Home button is pressed!");
    }
  }
  return false;
}
}}}

== getRepeatCount ==

Retrieve the repeat count of the event. See [http://developer.android.com/reference/android/view/KeyEvent.html Android KeyEvent] document for details.

== getMetaState ==

Returns the state of the meta keys. See [http://developer.android.com/reference/android/view/KeyEvent.html Android KeyEvent] document for details.